lite/g3doc/ios.md, before:

# TensorFlow Lite for iOS

## Building

To create a universal iOS library for TensorFlow Lite, you need to build it
using Xcode's command line tools on a MacOS machine. If you have not already,
you will need to install Xcode 8 or later and the tools using `xcode-select`:

```bash
xcode-select --install
```

If this is a new install, you will need to run XCode once to agree to the
license before continuing.

(You will also need to have [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) installed.)

Then install
[automake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automake)/[libtool](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Libtool):

```bash
brew install automake
brew install libtool
```

Then you need to run a shell script to download the dependencies you need:

```bash
tensorflow/contrib/lite/download_dependencies.sh
```

This will fetch copies of libraries and data from the web and install them in
`tensorflow/contrib/lite/downloads`.

With all of the dependencies set up, you can now build the library for all five
supported architectures on iOS:

```bash
tensorflow/contrib/lite/build_ios_universal_lib.sh
```

Under the hood this uses a makefile in `tensorflow/contrib/lite` to build the
different versions of the library, followed by a call to `lipo` to bundle them
into a universal file containing armv7, armv7s, arm64, i386, and x86_64
architectures. The resulting library is in
`tensorflow/contrib/lite/gen/lib/libtensorflow-lite.a`.

If you get an error such as `no such file or directory: 'x86_64'` when running 
`build_ios_universal_lib.sh`: open Xcode > Preferences > Locations, and ensure 
a value is selected in the "Command Line Tools" dropdown.

## Using in your own application

You'll need to update various settings in your app to link against TensorFlow
Lite. You can view them in the example project at
`tensorflow/contrib/lite/examples/ios/simple/simple.xcodeproj` but here's a full
rundown:

-   You'll need to add the library at
    `tensorflow/contrib/lite/gen/lib/libtensorflow-lite.a` to your linking build
    stage, and in Search Paths add `tensorflow/contrib/lite/gen/lib` to the
    Library Search Paths setting.

-   The _Header Search_ paths needs to contain:

    -   the root folder of tensorflow,
    -   `tensorflow/contrib/lite/downloads`
    -   `tensorflow/contrib/lite/downloads/flatbuffers/include`

-   C++11 support (or later) should be enabled by setting `C++ Language Dialect`
    to `GNU++11` (or `GNU++14`), and `C++ Standard Library` to `libc++`.

Commit message:

Update ios.md (#17724)
brew install commonly fails on modern versions of OSX, where the symlink needs to be manually added. I added instructions to chown /usr/local/*, which will allow for this.

lite/g3doc/ios.md, after:

# TensorFlow Lite for iOS

## Building

To create a universal iOS library for TensorFlow Lite, you need to build it
using Xcode's command line tools on a MacOS machine. If you have not already,
you will need to install Xcode 8 or later and the tools using `xcode-select`:

```bash
xcode-select --install
```

If this is a new install, you will need to run XCode once to agree to the
license before continuing.

(You will also need to have [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) installed.)

Then install
[automake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automake)/[libtool](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Libtool):

```bash
brew install automake
brew install libtool
```
If you get an error where either automake or libtool install but do not link correctly, you'll first need to:
```bash
sudo chown -R $(whoami) /usr/local/*
```
Then follow the instructions to perform the linking:
```bash
brew link automake
brew link libtool
```

Then you need to run a shell script to download the dependencies you need:

```bash
tensorflow/contrib/lite/download_dependencies.sh
```

This will fetch copies of libraries and data from the web and install them in
`tensorflow/contrib/lite/downloads`.

With all of the dependencies set up, you can now build the library for all five
supported architectures on iOS:

```bash
tensorflow/contrib/lite/build_ios_universal_lib.sh
```

Under the hood this uses a makefile in `tensorflow/contrib/lite` to build the
different versions of the library, followed by a call to `lipo` to bundle them
into a universal file containing armv7, armv7s, arm64, i386, and x86_64
architectures. The resulting library is in
`tensorflow/contrib/lite/gen/lib/libtensorflow-lite.a`.

If you get an error such as `no such file or directory: 'x86_64'` when running 
`build_ios_universal_lib.sh`: open Xcode > Preferences > Locations, and ensure 
a value is selected in the "Command Line Tools" dropdown.

## Using in your own application

You'll need to update various settings in your app to link against TensorFlow
Lite. You can view them in the example project at
`tensorflow/contrib/lite/examples/ios/simple/simple.xcodeproj` but here's a full
rundown:

-   You'll need to add the library at
    `tensorflow/contrib/lite/gen/lib/libtensorflow-lite.a` to your linking build
    stage, and in Search Paths add `tensorflow/contrib/lite/gen/lib` to the
    Library Search Paths setting.

-   The _Header Search_ paths needs to contain:

    -   the root folder of tensorflow,
    -   `tensorflow/contrib/lite/downloads`
    -   `tensorflow/contrib/lite/downloads/flatbuffers/include`

-   C++11 support (or later) should be enabled by setting `C++ Language Dialect`
    to `GNU++11` (or `GNU++14`), and `C++ Standard Library` to `libc++`.
